hey guys welcome to lingua marina today
i'm going to teach you
how to get used of overused words in
english
saying i don't like it is a little
offensive sometimes and western culture
and english language is all about
being polite it's all about being a
little invasive about your true feelings
because you don't want to hurt
people like if somebody gives you a cake
and you don't like it you don't just say
i don't like it
i don't like it you're trying to be more
polite in this situation and before we
start please smash the like button below
this video
so the algorithm knows that this video
is worth recommending
to other english language students and
if you know you subscribe to this
channel there is a red button below hit
subscribe
let's start with being polite aspect of
this video so what does that mean
when you don't like something you don't
just say i don't like it you start with
something
encouraging when i was doing my
filmmaking course in los angeles
i was learning to be a director of a
movie and whenever i didn't like
the acting of some actors that were in
my movie
i would tell them hey stop i don't like
it let's do it again
my teacher would always approach me and
tell me marina
you cannot do this in america maybe this
is the russian way to do it and yes this
is the russian way to do it the russians
are very straightforward
she told me that in america what we do
we say excuse me
i really like your acting you've done an
amazing job
there's just one thing i wanted to
change a little bit
in the next shoot that we do maybe you
could do this this and that
so instead of just telling your person
how bad they are you actually tell them
how great they are
and then you tell them about things that
can be worked on and this is the way
to do that in the western culture and i
actually like it
it makes me feel more at ease instead of
just receiving critics
now that we're finished with the
cultural aspect we can go straight into
the
english language part and with the
english language part
you know we've done a lot of classes on
this channel
where i help you replace different
phrases like i don't like it as one of
those phrases
it's nice as one of those phrases i try
to teach you synonyms
so you can diversify your speech so in
terms of i don't like it
you can say i dislike it which is a
little more advanced
and it's a little more formal so if
you're in a formal meeting
and somebody gives you a proposal of
course you start with oh the proposal is
great
i like this and this aspect of it but i
dislike
that you're doing this this and that
that's the way to tell it
i just like that expression immensely
you can also say i'm not interested
you can say your proposal is great but
i'm not really interested in jumping on
it in the next few weeks because i'm on
my maternity leave
uh instead of saying i don't like it you
say i'm not really interested
no i'm not interested if you're unhappy
with somebody's actions you can tell
them
i don't really appreciate you being rude
with me in public for example
i don't appreciate it same way it's a
synonym too i don't like it
i don't appreciate it okay now let's
jump onto the informal section
i'm sure you've heard this hundreds of
times i'm not into it
and i'm not into you i'm not into
playing sports
i'm not into speaking other languages
just english to be into something is to
like something and we're trying to
diversify your speech and learn new
phrases so another way to say i don't
like it
is to say i'm not into it i'm not into
labels
and i've heard this phrase many times
when there is a movie scene where
a guy asks a girl to go out the girl
says
i'm not really into you i'm sorry i
don't want to date you
that means that i don't really like you
i'm sorry i don't want to date you
i'm not into you i'm not fond of it
another great phrase
i'll tell you my story where i can use
this phrase uh when i was 17 years old i
went
into a theme park in saint petersburg
and it was an amazing roller coaster
and i was super excited to be on it but
then
there was this safety thing that was on
top of me
and you go up and down and it's supposed
to protect you
and it flipped up when we were on the
roller coaster and i was so so scared so
what i could do i could actually drag it
back to me uh so at least i could feel
safe
uh but i was so so scared i was only 17
years old and i've heard of people
getting injured on such roller coasters
so
since then i'm not really fond of theme
parks
and whenever i go to a theme park with
my friends
i just don't take any roller coasters i
just wash them maybe make
a vlog take some pictures for instagram
but i'm no longer fond of roller
coasters because uh
i think i've got this trauma now and i
just don't want to risk my life
i'm not really fond of roller coasters
i'm not too fond of that name
i'm not crazy about it it's another
phrase and i would use it when i
go out for lunch and somebody would tell
me like hey
do you want to grab sushi and like yeah
we could
i'm not crazy about it which means i'm
okay
it's not like a strong phrase i'm okay
we could grab sushi but i'm not really
crazy about it maybe we could do
pasta because i'm crazy about italian
food
that's an example i'm not crazy about it
it's not for me another phrase
for example uh somebody tells you hey
have you seen the latest netflix tv show
about
a guy who murders people all the time
and you're like
it's not for me i don't like that genre
i like comedies
i like love movies i like uh sci-fi
but i don't like watching other people
kill other people so
it's not for me it's not for me i'm
not much of a and you insert a word
person i'll give you an example my
husband loves to go to movie theaters
and i just think that i can watch
everything at home
once it's out and i just don't see the
point of going to movie theaters
especially
if the movie is a little weird we went
to see once upon a time in hollywood
and i wish i actually read a story
before i watched it i wish
i could watch it at home so i could
pause and read wikipedia
but we went to a movie theater and i
just had to watch it and i didn't really
get it
the time i watched it so i'm not much of
a
movie theater person i'm more of a
person who stays at home and watches tv
shows on
netflix i'm not much of a museum guy now
the next phrase
that you can say instead of saying i
don't like it you can say
i'll pass you're invited to go out on a
saturday night
and you decide to stay home and learn a
language
so you tell your friends sorry guys i'll
pass
well probably if you're in america i
wouldn't pass because then you can
interact with native speakers
but for the learning purposes you're
going to say alpha
so i'll pass means you're not really
interested you don't like the idea of
going somewhere you like the idea of
staying at home
and learning a language i'll pass
thanks the next phrase is really direct
and it's really straightforward
and this isn't a phrase that you would
use in a business meeting or
in a formal interaction this is
something that you would use with the
really close friends
like somebody is trying to kiss you on
the cheek and you can tell i can't stand
it
i don't like people kissing me all the
time i can't stand
people kissing me all the time so the
phrase is i can't stand it again it's
really strong i wouldn't use it in a
business environment i wouldn't use it
in a class
i would only use it with your close
friends i can't stand it anymore
another strong phrase it drives me crazy
and when you say it with intonation that
i've used right now people are going to
understand that
you hate something it's even stronger
than i don't like it it's
actually hating the weather in the
winter drives me crazy
i hate snow i hate that it's always dark
i feel depressed winter drives me crazy
that just drives me crazy the next race
is
a little british it's not my cup of tea
i'm losing my british accent i used to
mimic it so close to reality but now
just gone going to the uk this summer so
hopefully i'll get it back
but yeah it's not my cup of tea um
it's a way to say that again you don't
like it
it's just an expression that a lot of
people use in great britain
but i've also heard it in america yeah
it's not my cup of tea but
you know and the last but not the least
is very american
it's not my thing it's not my thing you
know
you can use it for almost anything if
somebody is asking you what kind of
sport do you do
you say it's not my thing i don't do
sports at all
i just sit at home and watch tv
hey how are you you hear this phrase all
the time
and i'm sure you have a reflex
to answer i'm fine thank you this was
like your first
english class at school right but the
thing is what we've learned at school
is not always applicable in real life
in america for example if you're asked
how are you
in the majority of cases people don't
care
which means that your answer should
depend on whether people care or not
and i'm fine thank you is really well
kind of
old-fashioned so today i'm going to
teach you
how to reply to how are you in different
situations
and with different people so if you're
interested continue watching
first let's look at some quick phrases
that you can use
you would use those phrases with
acquaintances or
strangers what does it mean when you
come to a grocery store
and the cashier asks you how are you
this is a stranger and you don't want to
tell them that you know everything is
bad and you have to pay
this college bill or whatever or
somebody sitting next to you in a bus
or you're riding in an elevator like i
ride in an elevator every
day i meet my neighbors and they always
how are you it doesn't mean i'm really
interested how am i
they just want to start a conversation
those people are also
strangers actually in the united states
when people ask you how
are you sometimes it's equal to hello
and it's not really a question so in
this situation
it's better to give a short answer
because you don't want to be too
daunting with explaining what's going on
in your life
the first short answer is not bad
which depending on your intonation can
be either positive or neutral
so if you say not bad that means
everything is okay
everything is going well you can all say
not bad
which is neutral or not bad this is
positive
not bad the next phrase you can say all
right
again here it means you're fine and
everything depends on your intonation
all right it's like okay neutral
everything's all right positive you know
you're enjoying your life
i know right the next thing you can say
good i'm good and sometimes
you think that saying i'm good is
grammatically incorrect
because when we're talking about actions
um we
normally use adverbs instead of
adjectives so for example
saying we danced good is wrong
we danced well is better but because in
this sentence you're actually saying
i am good or you can just say good
it makes it grammatically correct so
don't worry about it
i'm good is it completely grammatically
correct phrase
and it means that you're happy
everything is going well in your life so
okay this is the last answer that i'm
giving you
when you reply to strangers so let's
repeat them
not bad all right good very short kind
of informal
and you don't waste other people's time
because you remember that
how are you is just a way of saying
hello and being polite
but if you're talking to your friends if
you're talking to your family members
if you're talking to somebody who's
really close it's actually impolite to
just tell them like eh
i'm okay whatever i'm good you want to
be more explicit
you want to go into details because
these people actually
care about you and they want to know
what's going on in your life
you can say i'm exhausted
you're really tired there are a lot of
things going on at work
and you really want to complain then do
it that's a perfect situation to
complain because you're talking to your
friends
i'm exhausted if you tell your friend
that you're okay
sometimes if he's really worried about
you he might ask you
just okay and this would be an
appropriate follow-up question because
they might notice that something is not
well that something's going on
so they want more honesty from you i'm
okay
you can say i'm frustrated my aunt in
san francisco she just got a new job
and we met for dinner and i was like how
are you and she's like
i'm frustrated there's this co-worker
who is so annoying who is he's actually
below her so
she manages him and he's trying to tell
her what to do
all the time and she said i'm frustrated
i don't know how to deal with him
i don't know how to settle in this new
working space because this guy keeps
telling me what to do
when in the reality i'm his manager
totally appropriate phrase to answer
your question how are you i'm frustrated
all right i'm just frustrated if a
friend calls you and you know
he would always call when he has free
time and wants to talk
you can tell them hey i'm busy you know
i'm recording a video for my lingo
marina channel
i'm gonna call you back in half an hour
i'm busy
i'm busy you see what we're talking
about here is
giving people more details about how
you're actually feeling
and the next phrase is stressed out how
are you
i'm so stressed out right now uh you
know i have exams coming in a week
i have to apply for a job i have to
apply for a visa blah blah blah
so there's a lot going on in your life
and you're under this pressure i'm so
stressed out by the way and the task
for you after this video is to tell me
how you
are and i'm asking you how are you
and if you already have a phrase in mind
write it down comments below and tell me
what's going on in your life let's make
it more
informal let's make it in a way that
friends and relatives do
tell me how you're feeling what's going
on in your life using one of those
phrases
that you're learning right now another
very common phrase
i've been better normally it's followed
up by
actually complaining about something or
explaining what's going on in your life
and
why right now is not the best time
why you're not enjoying your life right
now and um
if you say i've been better i will
probably ask what's going on
why even better if everything is great
if you don't want to go into too many
details you can just say i'm great
everything is great how are you i'm
great
and the last but not the least if
something is coming up in your life
you're having a baby you're heading out
to a concert you are getting a new job
you can say i'm excited
i'm excited and don't forget
that when people ask you especially your
friends when they ask you how you are
and when you tell them what's going on
in your life
it's very important that you also ask
them
back what's going on in their lives
because this is the way you start a
conversation this is the way you're
being polite
and uh maintaining relationship with
people who
matter to you hey guys welcome to the
channel this is lingo marina
what is your natural reaction to this
what
what what what what this is the way a
lot of you
ask people to repeat things you just say
what or you say what i say what
and depending on intonation people can
get offended if you say what this is
really impolite
if you say what people would think
you'll be surprised
so there are other ways to ask people to
repeat something and we're gonna talk
about these things
in today's video
there are several ways to ask people to
repeat information and we're going to
start with
formal ways a very formal way to ask
people for more information
is very british british people say
pardon
pardon me pardon and when they say
they mean that they didn't get what you
were saying so you're supposed to repeat
things
you can also say sorry sorry what
or excuse me so when you don't
understand something you just say excuse
me
excuse me and with the intonation and
maybe you show your ear people would
understand that they need to repeat
things
the most formal way is i beg your pardon
i beg your pardon
which is also i'm trying to pronounce it
with a british accent because i've never
heard
american people say i beg your pardon
maybe they do
but i've heard that a lot more often in
great britain in london
i beg your pardon there are also some
certain phrases that would help you out
in this situation
you can say excuse me i didn't catch you
could you repeat this again please or
you can say
i am sorry i don't understand can you
repeat
i please understand or if you want to be
even more polite you could say
could you repeat please i'm sorry could
you repeat the question
if somebody's saying a word or
expression that you hear for the first
time you can say
excuse me i hear this word for the first
time or
this word is new for me could you
explain what it means
or you can say i'm sorry
i'm not sure i understand what you mean
by and then add this word for example i
say
i feel a little under the weather today
and you're like
under the weather feel under the weather
and you can say
i'm sorry what do you mean by saying
under the weather what does that
expression mean and i would go ahead and
explain
that i'm feeling a little sick today
which is not true
thankfully of course there are informal
ways of asking people to repeat things
but please make sure you maintain the
right intonation
because for example the phrase what did
you say can be said
in two different ways you can say what
did you say
what'd you say what and if you're
chatting to a friend that is totally
fine the friend would repeat
but if you're talking to a stranger and
you use the wrong intonation
what did you just say what did you say
that could be perceived as a way to
start a
fight so i wouldn't really use this
phrase with that intonation
another informal way is just to say huh
people would understand that they need
to repeat it's spelled like
huh and you see that a lot in different
texts or in different books
that are informal americans love to
contract words and instead of excuse me
sometimes they just say excuse me excuse
me
excuse me so there is no in the
beginning excuse me you can also say
what was that for example somebody's
telling you about things they're going
to do tomorrow and you didn't catch what
they were saying and
you're like what was that and they're
going to repeat what was that
it was what the last phrase in this
informal section
is something that can be used when you
were focused on a different thing for
example you were reading a book
or you were meditating and somebody
started talking to you
and you like you stopped editing you're
like
this is hmm if you spell it
and this phrase would let people know
that you didn't catch what they were
saying
let's talk about some slang phrases that
would mean the same thing
asking people to repeat information you
can say come again
come again very american very widely
used
come again you can also say pass that by
me again
which is not that widely used if you
don't understand something and you're
giving up
you can just say i don't get it i'm
sorry i don't get it i don't get it
maybe you've been trying to understand
that person several times and you
tried saying excuse me and you tried
saying i don't understand this
expression and you try it saying
what do you mean and you know at the end
you're just
giving up and you just say i don't think
i get it and i wanted to wrap up this
class with idioms and remember idioms
are phrases that you cannot
translate verbatim which means word to
word because if you
try to translate them word to word into
your own language
you're gonna get something that doesn't
make any sense
okay idioms this is all greek to me
that means i don't understand a word
i think our wires are crossed
i think maybe we got our wires crossed
about tonight that's an idiom
with the exact same meaning that was
as clear as mud this actually makes
sense because
mud is not clear mud is dirty and if
something
is as clear as mud that means you can't
see through
it's non-transparent you don't
understand i
can't make heads or tails of what you're
saying
that's another idiom meaning i don't
understand you
everything you said is just a word salad
this is an amazing phrase and i know
some other languages have the same
phrase
i remember german language as
which means i only hear railway station
which means i don't understand
anything i it sounds super weird to me
so english language has the same phrase
by the way if you're watching from
germany comment down below
uh which city you're from i'm a fan of
dresden because i studied there and yeah
the english expression is everything you
said is just
a word salad saying i don't know all the
time
is really boring and there are amazing
phrases used by native speakers
that would help you replace this phrase
and make your speech
more natural and more exciting to listen
to so
if you're interested continue watching
this video when somebody asks you about
something you don't know
you can reply that's a good question
i'll find out
that's a good question when i just
started my company mp education
and we sent people to study abroad there
were a lot of questions that came from
our customers
that i didn't know the answer to but if
i just said i don't know
i would sound maybe unprofessional
because as a professional study abroad i
had to no answer to that question
and that might have sounded a little
dismissive
the client might have gotten an
impression that i didn't want to help
them
so if you are working with customers if
you are
trying to show that you want to help the
best response is
something that i've just mentioned
that's a good question
i'll find out sometimes saying i don't
know
just stops the conversation and maybe
that person who's asking you a question
wants to continue talking to you and if
you want to continue this friendly
conversation
you can say i have the exact same
question
i could ask you the same question for
example your friend asks you
when do you think the quarantine will be
over
when would we be able to freely travel
and i know europeans are already able to
do that
and you can say i don't know because of
course you don't know what's going to
happen
but if you want to continue conversation
you can say
i have the exact same question i had
plans to go to europe this summer i had
plans to study abroad
and you know i don't want when this
would be over i have my flights booked i
have my hotel book
and i'm just sitting here and waiting so
instead of saying i don't know you would
say
i have the exact same question and this
way the conversation would continue and
you would sound friendlier
another phrase is really conversational
widely used by native speakers
instead of saying i don't know you can
say i have no idea i have no idea
and another phrase that is little more
advanced i would say i have no clue
i have no clue where we are i have no
clue
is basically the same as i have no idea
it just makes your speech a little
different
the next phrase is rhetorical it is a
question that
people don't expect an answer to so for
example when somebody tells you
do you know when the stores are going to
open again
you can say who knows who knows
and the meaning is the same i don't have
a clue i don't know
who knows the next phrase is really
informal uh
used by teenagers used by a lot of
people it sounds like i don't know
but it's a faster version of it so it's
like dunno
i don't know and it's spelled with five
letters only
dunno do you know when they serve mech
breakfast in mcdonald's
dunno so this is a fast phrase saving as
i don't know and it's really widespread
among teenagers
the next phrase is why don't we ask
and then you insert somebody's name hey
why don't we ask her
for example you have this zoom meeting
because everything is happening in zoom
right now you have this zoom meeting
with your colleagues or with other
students from your group
and somebody raises a question when do
you think we should organize the next
meeting
if they address this question to you you
can say why don't we
ask ben because ben is the one who's
responsible for organizing all of the
meetings for a group
and this way you are owning the
conversation instead of saying i don't
know
you are actually redirecting the
question to another person
and you're kind of staying in charge
which is a great thing
especially in a group it's good when
somebody is navigating the questions
so you can say why don't we ask ben ben
when do you think we should organize the
next meeting
your guess is as good as mine your guess
is as good as mine
this phrase is oh my god it's beautiful
right i would say
i would use it if i was making a movie
if i was making a very beautiful vlog
i would say instead of saying i don't
know i would say your guess is as good
as mine
that means that i have no idea as well i
have no
answer to your question and i could only
guess
and my guess would be as good as yours
and your guess would be as good as mine
if you're really annoyed by somebody's
question
somebody has been asking you this
question every single day
you know babies or kids they love to ask
the same question for example when
you're in the airplane and you're
waiting to take off
the kids would be like when would we
take off when would we take out i
remember myself doing that and when
you're flying the kids would be like
when are we going to arrive when are we
going to rise kids are amazing
but there are some people who are
annoying asking the same question you
can get back to them with a phrase how
should i know
how should i know like why do you think
i should have this information you asked
me yesterday i told you i don't know
you asked me the day before yesterday i
told you who knows
you know you answered with the phrases
that we learned in this class
and uh when you're so annoyed with a
question you can just say
how should i know come on why do you
think i have this knowledge
and when i first came to the uk my
friend told me
send loads of love to your parents
and i was like wow i'm used to lots of
love but i'm not used to
l-o-a-d-s loads of love and that sounded
cool
and i started using it and later i
realized there are so many words that
you can use
instead of a lot of and we made up this
list together with my team and i'm going
to teach you
what to use instead of a lot so if
you're interested in diversifying your
speech
in sounding more advanced continue
watching this video and
keep writing new things down because
this is the way you remember and later
use them
a great deal means a large amount
so instead of saying i know a lot of
k-pop music you can say
i know a great deal of k-pop music
that sounds a lot cooler right great
deal about monsters but
ample means enough
or more than enough in other words
plentiful
in case of another lockdown i have
ample stores of food and water i think
this is almost everyone in the us
because people bought
so many things in the past few months
ample that should provide a sample time
abundance is a word used for a great
quantity of something
paris is a city that have an abundance
of fine
restaurants it means it has a lot of
fine restaurants but abundance
sounds a lot nicer and by the way if
you're taking any tests or if you are
doing academic writing academic speaking
make sure you learn
at least three or five of these words by
heart
and learn how to use them because on
every test you will be graded
according to the level of vocabulary
that you're using and if throughout the
test you will be like a lot a lot a lot
and junior speaking be a lot a lot a lot
and during your university interview
you'll be like a lot a lot a lot of
people be like oh my god
does he know or does she know any other
words and if you watch this video you'll
be like oh yeah i do
marina taught me some there's an
abundance of characters
enormously means to a very great degree
or extent so this is an adverb
the quality of life varies enormously
from one place
to another enormously enormously
dangerous consequences
heaps means a large amount or
number of i've got heaps of work
to do poodles of love and heaps of good
wishes
from cam legion means a great number and
legion
is normally used when we're talking
about a group of people
after graduating from a university i
have a legion of new friends that means
i have a huge group
of new friends adoring legion of fab
the next one is loads a lot of ore manny
and this is what my british friend
catherine uses
whenever she writes a letter or an email
she
writes loads of love to your family from
me
xxx this is kiss kiss kiss has
loads of insecurities messes is a
synonym for
a large number of people the masses will
be voting
on tuesday that means a lot of people
the majority of people will be voting on
tuesday
great masses of humanity myriad
historically
means a unit of 10 000 but
it also means a lot throughout the life
a person encounters
myriads of concepts so verbatim
if we're going to explain it throughout
the life the person encounters
tens of thousands of new concepts of the
myriad of treasures we have got
plenty means a sufficient number or
sometimes
more than enough i would have plenty of
time to get home
before my parents arrived that means i
will have more than enough time
to get home plenty of people plethora
an excessive amount of something
plethora
there is a plethora of books about the
royal
family there is a plethora of books
about economics there is a plethora of
books
on anything would you say i have a
plethora
of pinatas reams means a very large
amount
of something again the same as a
lot of they had reams of data to prove
their point
they have a lot of data to prove their
point dreams
scats large number of quantity
again a lot i've got scads of letters
to write scads of lobsters all in a tank
slew a large amount or a number you can
find a slew of books
on the shelf there's a slew of cyborgs
roaming this part
again these words are not something that
you would use every five minutes when
you speak
english but you would encounter them
when you read a book when you talk to a
native speaker when you
read an article and sometimes you see
the words cats and you're like
is that a lot or is that a little and
sometimes the meaning changes completely
if you don't understand one single word
so
just make sure you kind of try and
remember what they mean
i don't expect you to use them right
away in your speech but
at least start to recognize them start
to acknowledge that these words exist
and i want to wrap up with the word tons
which means much
a lot of i feel tons better that means i
feel a lot better
it will mean tons to me if you like this
video
and subscribe to this channel if you
enjoyed watching it
and if you guys want to grow your
vocabulary by even more words there is a
resource called english out online this
is where i posted my
workbook in english and it has a lot of
useful vocabulary a lot of idioms
a lot of phrasal verbs that are going to
make you sound like a native speaker the
link will be below
download it and start improving your
english today
thank you so much for watching this
video and i will see you really soon in
my next
vlogs bye